Okay, so next we're just gonna start
thinking about the models, and
then we're gonna start making
the models and creating the schema.
So let's do that.
Okay, so like I said, we're not building
a UI for this API in this course, but
having a design I think is really
helpful for designing your models.
Knowing what data needs to be the UI
gives you hints on what data needs to be
recorded in a DB.
So we'll be using this design here.
So if you click this link, it will take
you to this It's a pretty cool app
that's some really cool designer made for
Figma it's like a template.
And it's a change log app, and we can look
at this I'm gonna click on Preview and
here it is,
here's what the app looks like.
It's a really nice app.
So I should just do this for
the side project.
And we're gonna make a schema for
this app.
And we're gonna look at the design to
determine what are the models that we need
to make and
this is actually what I do in reality.
It's really hard for me,
I know that's like basic stuff
that I have to make first schema.
But if a designer already like designed
to thing, now I really know what to make
because I'm basing my designed off of what
information I gotta put on the screen.
So what we wanna do is we wanna look at
this and kinda get an idea of what models
we need to make and different things
like that, and then we'll make them.
Does that make sense?
So just looking at this,
anybody wanna take a stab at.
Some information we need to record in
a database based off what's on the screen?
No wrong answers.
>> You've a roadmap table.
>> Roadmap, I like that.
>> Projects, tasks.
Yeah, those make sense.
Yes.
>> User.
>> Yeah,
you can't do anything without a user.
Got to have a user.
Yep, anything else?
>> Features.
>> Features I like features?
Yeah, that's probably the thing.
Yeah, I mean, that's basically it.
You're just taking note of this and
seeing all the different fields that these
models would have and things like that.
So.
Let's get to it.
So first, I'm just gonna introduce
you to like the Prisma syntax.
So I'm just gonna go into the code,
and we're going to just write,
let's just do the user schema.
So the way this works inside of Prisma if
you've ever uses like graph SQL syntax is
very similar to that.
The team behind Prisma had a graph
SQL product before this, so
they're heavy in a graph SQL.
So this thing is heavily
influenced off graph SQLs,
syntax, or whatever it's called,
which is heavily influenced off JSON.
So if you know how to make JavaScript
objects, you'll know how to do this.
So if I wanna make a user scheme,
I can say model user like that.
And all users have a what?
>> ID.
>> ID Yeah, All users have an ID, so
I can say ID.
I can make it an integer if I want to.
But I like my IDs to be string.
So I'm gonna say ID is a string.
And then I'm gonna have to give this.
I don't know what they call this in Prisma
but always think of directive [LAUGH].
I think it's like an attribute, maybe.
So I'm gonna say this is identifying
this field as the ID field.
And then I can give it
a default like this.
And I can say uuid.
So it's basically gonna default to a uuid.
If you don't know what a uuid is,
it's basically just like a guaranteed
unique string that's in a certain format.
So this is guaranteeing that all
users have a unique string as an ID.
I can do integer and I can tell this thing
to auto increment to go up by one, but
then you have user one,
two, three, four, five.
I think you're just setting yourself
up for trouble later, in my opinion.
So yeah, we have user ID.
Is that users are gonna have usernames
in this app, so I can say username.
And that needs to be unique,
so I can say unique.
They also don't have a password.
Which is a string, okay?
And yeah, maybe even like a createdAt.
So let's say createdAt, and
I think that's a date time,
and we can say @default to now.
Okay.
So now that we have that.
That's pretty much how
Prisma's schema syntax works,
it's not more difficult than this.
I mean, yeah, you gotta look up some
of the stuff to see what it is, but
it's pretty intuitive, and it doesn't
really matter what database you choose
it's 99% the same no matter the database
which I think is refreshing.
So this is how we're
gonna make our schema.
So cool we have our user,
any questions on this?
On the Prisma, yes.
>> You could define
relationship with other table.
>> I knew someone who was working on
databases was gonna ask that question.
So the question was, how do you define
relationships with other tables?
We're gonna get there and
it's actually pretty cool.
And this is why I recommend downloading
the extension cuz the extension will
actually do that for you.
It'll help you define those relationships
without you doing anything,
which is really cool.
>> Why did you use the UUID?
>> I use the UUID because I
don't like numbers as IDs.
And Postgres doesn't like Mongo,
or it has mechanism
built-in other than
incrementing numbers for IDs.
So you just have to set
your own IDs in a SQL based
database whereas Mongo like just
we'll figure it out for you.
So yeah, it was either numbers auto
incrementing or using a UUID, so
I chose UUID that way I also don't
have to manage a system of coming up
with globally unique strings myself.